# Jeans Market Research

In this research project, i used multiple linear regression models (MLR) to identify the most significant variables in jeans purchase and to forecast the price that customers would pay for jeans based on the research questions conditions, using sales data from the prior year. All variables had <0.05 significance. Store locations were the most significant factor in jeans purchase, suggesting customers made purchases close to where they lived or worked. Employment status was the least significant factor, suggesting importance of anthropological factors e.g.; ubiquity and affordability across all social strata.

## Introduction

Wearing jeans is ubiquitous globally and across all social strata [3] and demographics. According to Statista [4] the value of the global jeanswear market is forecast to grow from $100 billion in 2018 to $127.63 billion in 2023. The USA is the second largest domestic market after China with 26.37% and 29.71% market share respectively. The statistical proportions that drive purchase decisions vary from utility and security in ubiquity [1], fashion and physical appearance and body cues rooted in social anthropology [5] to affordability [2]. Despite ubiquitous use of jeans, there is a limit to what customers can afford. The jeanswear market is also bends to the whims of fashion. Apparel retailers therefore face a dilemma as to how to adjust their stock to market demand, whilst optimising their supply chains. Retailers therefore need to be able to predict or forecast future customer choices.As an important market in the apparel industry, statisticians study the jeanswear market to gain insight into factors that determine purchase decisions. Giving credence to anthropological arguments, Reike, et.al [6] used MLR to determine that purchase intent was most influenced by body image satisfaction than other factors such as morals and beliefs, dressing for occasions, seasons, and the weather.In this context, the purpose of this paper is to address the following research questions

In this context, the purpose of this paper is to address the following research questions;
       1. Are there differences in jeans purchases due to demographic, sociological or financial factors?
       2. What are the most significant and least significant factors that influence jeans purchase?
 
In this research, i identified differences in purchasing, by using MLR and supplementary statistical techniques to model the market research data and draw inference from the ensuing results, into the prices that customer segments are willing to pay, and the significance of the factors that influence them.

##  Data 

The source market research data was collected from individuals who bought jeans from 4 major retail stores. Data descriptions were provided. No further information was provided. The dataset comprised 394 rows and 13 columns. 12 columns are categorical independent variables, 11 of which are qualitative and non-numerical and presented as bins (ranges) and 1 column with numerical label data. A single (1) column (‘PayJean’) contains continuous numerical data. ‘PayJean’ is the price paid for jeans, and is the dependent variable as it is the only variable whose value is depends on the values of the independent variables, and was used to address the research questions. Initial exploratory data analysis showed 6 instances of missing values (Null values) spread across 5 rows(1.27% of the rows), and 70 instances of erroneous values (‘999’ values) spread across a further 54 rows (13.7% of the rows). There were 3 outliers in the dependent variable. To avoid creating skewed models, consideration was given to data cleaning, and it was decided to remove the 15% of rows with either missing or erroneous values from the dataset in order to preserve subsequent model’s integrity, leaving a trimmed and cleaned dataset of 335 rows and13 columns that was used for statistical analysis and MLR modelling. A Chi-square (χ2) statistic test was run on dependent variable before and after data cleaning to test for skewedness. The results showed an unchanged overall p-value < 2.2e-16 for all the variables with a combinedsignificance level of <0.05, thus validating the data cleaning decision.

###  Data Preparation

The dataset was uploaded into R via a Jupyter Notebook for exploratory data analysis and data preparation, which was done simultaneously, so as make comparison with the effects of data cleaning and encoding. To align to the research questions, the categorical variables were further grouped into subgroups of pertinent to demographic, sociological and financial factors.  Initial exploratory numerical summaries showed a high proportion of non-numerical independent categorical variables. However, the post encoding numerical summaries were useful.

To prepare for MLR modelling, and specifically to test MLR hypotheses, the 12 categorical variables were encoded using R’s ‘as.factor()’ function

###  Visualisation 

To provide an initial understanding of the dataset, Bar Graphs were used to visualise the distributions of  the independent variables. Pie Charts were then added to visualisations after data cleaning (Appendix1 Figures 19 to 40). Histograms were used to visualise the distribution of the Histograms were used to visualise the distribution of the independent variable before and after data cleaning. After data modelling, x-y Scatter Plots were used to visualise MLR model assumption test results.